Refs #15049 . Added Documentation about irregular behaviour of annotate() and filter() order. (#16273)
django/django: docs/topics/db/aggregation.txt

query asks for the average of a publisher's book's ratings for only those
ratings exceeding 3.0.

Using multivalued filtering against a previously annotated aggregation might
still yield duplicate results.

Given:

* Publisher A has two books with each having 100 pages.

Here's an example demonstrating this behavior::

    >>> a = Publisher.objects.annotate(total_pages(Sum("books__pages"))
    >>> a.total_pages
    200
    >>> b = Publisher.objects.annotate(Sum("books__pages")).filter(books__in=Books.objects.all())
    >>> b.total_pages
    400

The expected result in both queries should be 200, but subsequent filter or

> additional aggregations can alter the results of the previous one.

Reviewer: Not sure how to word it properly but the behaviour here is the same as the one documented in [the _Spanning multi-valued relationships_ section](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.1/topics/db/queries/#spanning-multi-valued-relationships).

Maybe we should rephrase the docs to mention that the peculiarities are the same; `filter` calls won't reuse multi-valued JOINs generated by previous `annotate`or `filter` calls. If you want to prevent issues you should filter after annotations or use `Aggregate.filter`.

Author: So should I just add that comment about the peculiarities where you marked or do you recommend making changes elsewhere? 

I think mentioning it here will be appropriate and removing the line which sounds similar to the documentation you have linked.

query asks for the average of a publisher's book's ratings for only those
ratings exceeding 3.0.

> Using multivalued filtering against a previously annotated aggregation might

Reviewer 2: I think `multivalued` should use the same spelling as the existing docs.

still yield duplicate results.

> Given:
> 
> * Publisher A has two books with each having 100 pages.

Reviewer 2: If there is a single "pre-condition", I would suggest to use a single line without the bulleting:
```suggestion
Consider a Publisher named ``A`` that has two books, each with 100 pages.
```

Though the example demonstrating the issue never filters by `A`, so it seems that the `A` is irrelevant for the example? If yes, we should remove that to avoid distracting the reader.

Here's an example demonstrating this behavior::

    >>> a = Publisher.objects.annotate(total_pages(Sum("books__pages"))
    >>> a.total_pages
    200
    >>> b = Publisher.objects.annotate(Sum("books__pages")).filter(books__in=Books.objects.all())
    >>> b.total_pages
    400

> This is behavior is caused because ``filter()`` calls won't reuse multivalued

Reviewer 2: IIUC, the point from @charettes is that we should link explicitly to the "Spanning multi-valued relationships" section (which already has a reference target named `spanning-multi-valued-relationships`).
